Big data is a broad term for data sets so large or complex that they are difficult to process using
traditional data processing applications. Challenges include analysis, capture, curation, search, sharing,
storage, transfer, visualization, and information privacy.

In common usage, the term big data has largely come to refer simply to the use of predictive analytics or
other certain advanced methods to extract value from data, without any required magnitude thereon.

Analysis of data sets can find new correlations, to "spot business trends, prevent diseases, combat crime and
so on." Scientists, Practitioners of Media and Advertising and Governments alike regularly encounter
limitations due to large data sets in many areas. The limitations affect Internet search, finance and business
informatics.

Scientists, for example, ponder upon limitations including meteorology, genomics, connectomics, complex
physics simulations, biological and environmental research, and in e-Science in general.

Data sets grow in size in part because they are increasingly being gathered by ubiquitous information-sensing
mobile devices, aerial sensory technologies (remote sensing), software logs, cameras, microphones, radio-
frequency identification (RFID) readers, and wireless sensor networks. The world's technological per-capita
capacity to store information has roughly doubled every 40 months since the 1980s; as of 2012, every day 2.5
exabytes (2.5�1018) of data were created; The challenge for large enterprises is determining who should own
big data initiatives that straddle the entire organization.

Relational database management systems and desktop statistics and visualization packages often have difficulty
handling big data. The work instead requires "massively parallel software running on tens, hundreds, or even
thousands of servers". What is considered "big data" varies depending on the capabilities of the users and
their tools, and expanding capabilities make Big Data a moving target. Thus, what is considered to be "Big" in
one year will become ordinary in later years. "For some organizations, facing hundreds of gigabytes of data
for the first time may trigger a need to reconsider data management options. For others, it may take tens or
hundreds of terabytes before data size becomes a significant consideration."

Definition
Big data usually includes data sets with sizes beyond the ability of commonly used software tools to capture,
curate, manage, and process data within a tolerable elapsed time. Big data "size" is a constantly moving
target, as of 2012 ranging from a few dozen terabytes to many petabytes of data. Big data is a set of
techniques and technologies that require new forms of integration to uncover large hidden values from large
datasets that are diverse, complex, and of a massive scale.

In a 2001 research report and related lectures, META Group (now Gartner) analyst Doug Laney defined data
growth challenges and opportunities as being three-dimensional, i.e. increasing volume (amount of data),
velocity (speed of data in and out), and variety (range of data types and sources). Gartner, and now much of
the industry, continue to use this "3Vs" model for describing big data. In 2012, Gartner updated its
definition as follows: "Big data is high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information assets that
require new forms of processing to enable enhanced decision making, insight discovery and process
optimization." Additionally, a new V "Veracity" is added by some organizations to describe it.

If Gartners definition (the 3Vs) is still widely used, the growing maturity of the concept fosters a more
sound difference between big data and Business Intelligence, regarding data and their use:

Business Intelligence uses descriptive statistics with data with high information density to measure things,
detect trends etc.;
Big data uses inductive statistics and concepts from nonlinear system identification to infer laws
(regressions, nonlinear relationships, and causal effects) from large sets of data with low information
density to reveal relationships, dependencies and perform predictions of outcomes and behaviors.
Big data can also be defined as "Big data is a large volume unstructured data which cannot be handled by
standard database management systems like DBMS, RDBMS or ORDBMS".

Characteristics
Big data can be described by the following characteristics: Volume � The quantity of data that is generated is
very important in this context. It is the size of the data which determines the value and potential of the
data under consideration and whether it can actually be considered as Big Data or not. The name �Big Data�
itself contains a term which is related to size and hence the characteristic.

Variety - The next aspect of Big Data is its variety. This means that the category to which Big Data belongs
to is also a very essential fact that needs to be known by the data analysts. This helps the people, who are
closely analyzing the data and are associated with it, to effectively use the data to their advantage and thus
upholding the importance of the Big Data.

Velocity - The term �velocity� in the context refers to the speed of generation of data or how fast the data
is generated and processed to meet the demands and the challenges which lie ahead in the path of growth and
development.

Variability - This is a factor which can be a problem for those who analyse the data. This refers to the
inconsistency which can be shown by the data at times, thus hampering the process of being able to handle and
manage the data effectively.

Veracity - The quality of the data being captured can vary greatly. Accuracy of analysis depends on the
veracity of the source data.

Complexity - Data management can become a very complex process, especially when large volumes of data come
from multiple sources. These data need to be linked, connected and correlated in order to be able to grasp the
information that is supposed to be conveyed by these data. This situation, is therefore, termed as the
�complexity� of Big Data.

Big data analytics consists of 6 Cs in the integrated industry 4.0 and Cyber Physical Systems environment. 6C
system, that is, consist of connection (sensor and networks), Cloud (computing and data on demand), Cyber
(model and memory), content/context (meaning and correlation), community (sharing and collaboration), and
customization (personalization and value). In this scenario and in order to provide useful insight to the
factory management and gain correct content, data has to be processed with advanced tools (analytics and
algorithms) to generate meaningful information. Considering the presence of visible and invisible issues in an
industrial factory, the information generation algorithm has to capable of detecting and addressing invisible
issues such as machine degradation, component wear, etc. in the factory floor.

Architecture
In 2000, Seisint Inc. developed C++ based distributed file sharing framework for data storage and querying.
Structured, semi-structured and/or unstructured data is stored and distributed across multiple servers.
Querying of data is done by modified C++ called ECL which uses apply scheme on read method to create structure
of stored data during time of query. In 2004 LexisNexis acquired Seisint Inc. and 2008 acquired ChoicePoint,
Inc. and their high speed parallel processing platform. The two platforms were merged into HPCC Systems and in
2011 was open sourced under Apache v2.0 License. Currently HPCC and Quantcast File System are the only
publicly available platforms capable of analyzing multiple exabytes of data.

In 2004, Google published a paper on a process called MapReduce that used such an architecture. The MapReduce
framework provides a parallel processing model and associated implementation to process huge amount of data.
With MapReduce, queries are split and distributed across parallel nodes and processed in parallel (the Map
step). The results are then gathered and delivered (the Reduce step). The framework was very successful, so
others wanted to replicate the algorithm. Therefore, an implementation of the MapReduce framework was adopted
by an Apache open source project named Hadoop.

MIKE2.0 is an open approach to information management that acknowledges the need for revisions due to big data
implications in an article titled "Big Data Solution Offering". The methodology addresses handling big data in
terms of useful permutations of data sources, complexity in interrelationships, and difficulty in deleting (or
modifying) individual records.

Recent studies show that the use of a multiple layer architecture is an option for dealing with big data. The
Distributed Parallel architecture distributes data across multiple processing units and parallel processing
units provide data much faster, by improving processing speeds. This type of architecture inserts data into a
parallel DBMS, which implements the use of MapReduce and Hadoop frameworks. This type of framework looks to
make the processing power transparent to the end user by using a front end application server.

Big Data Analytics for Manufacturing Applications can be based on a 5C architecture (connection, conversion,
cyber, cognition, and configuration). Please see http://www.imscenter.net/cyber-physical-platform . In the
"Connection" level, devices can be designed to self-connect and self-sensing for its behavior. In the
"Conversion" level, data from self-connected devices and sensors are measuring the features of critical issues
with self-aware capabilities, machines can use the self-aware information to self-predict its potential
issues. In the "Cyber" level, each machine is creating its own "twin" by using these instrumented features and
further characterize the machine health pattern based on a "Time-Machine" methodology. The established "twin"
in the cyber space can perform self-compare for peer-to-peer performance for further synthesis. In the
"Cognition" level, the outcomes of self-assessment and self-evaluation will be presented to users based on an
"infographic" meaning to show the content and context of the potential issues. In the "Configuration" level,
the machine or production system can be reconfigured based on the priority and risk criteria to achieve
resilient performance.

The 5C Level Architecture can be described as: Smart Connection- Acquiring accurate and reliable data from
machines and their components is the first step in developing a cyber-physical system application. The data
might be directly measured by sensors or obtained from controller or enterprise manufacturing systems such as
ERP, MES, SCM and CMM. Two important factors at this level have to be considered. First, considering various
types of data, a seamless and tether-free method to manage data acquisition procedure and transferring data to
the central server is required where specific protocols such as MTConnect, etc. are effectively useful. On the
other hand, selecting proper sensors (type and specification) is the second important consideration for the
first level. Data-to-Information Conversion-Meaningful information has to be inferred from the data.
Currently, there are several tools and methodologies available for the data to information conversion level.
In recent years, extensive focus has been applied to develop these algorithms specifically for prognostics and
health management applications. By calculating health value, estimated remaining useful life, etc., the second
level of CPS architecture brings self-awareness to machines. Cyber-The cyber level acts as central information
hub in this architecture. Information is being pushed to it from every connected machine to form the machines
network. Having massive information gathered, specific analytics has to be used to extract additional
information that provide better insight over the status of individual machines among the fleet. These
analytics provide machines with self-comparison ability, where the performance of a single machine can be
compared with and rated among the fleet and on the other hand, similarities between machine performance and
previous assets (historical information) can be measured to predict the future behavior of the machinery. In
this paper we briefly introduce an efficient yet effective methodology for managing and analyzing information
at cyber level. Cognition-Implementing CPS upon this level generates a thorough knowledge of the monitored
system. Proper presentation of the acquired knowledge to expert users supports the correct decision to be
taken. Since comparative information as well as individual machine status is available, decision on priority
of tasks to optimize the maintaining process can be made. For this level, proper info-graphics are necessary
to completely transfer acquired knowledge to the users. Configuration-The configuration level is the feedback
from cyber space to physical space and act as supervisory control to make machines self-configure and self-
adaptive. This stage acts as resilience control system (RCS) to apply the corrective and preventive decisions,
which has been made in cognition level, to the monitored system.

Big Data Lake - With the changing face of business and IT sector, capturing and storage of data has emerged
into a sophisticated system. The big data lake allows an organization to shift its focus from centralized
control to a shared model to respond to the changing dynamics of information management. This enables quick
segregation of data into the data lake thereby reducing the overhead time.

Technologies
Big data requires exceptional technologies to efficiently process large quantities of data within tolerable
elapsed times. A 2011 McKinsey report suggests suitable technologies include A/B testing, crowdsourcing, data
fusion and integration, genetic algorithms, machine learning, natural language processing, signal processing,
simulation, time series analysis and visualisation. Multidimensional big data can also be represented as
tensors, which can be more efficiently handled by tensor-based computation, such as multilinear subspace
learning. Additional technologies being applied to big data include massively parallel-processing (MPP)
databases, search-based applications, data mining, distributed file systems, distributed databases, cloud
based infrastructure (applications, storage and computing resources) and the Internet.

Some but not all MPP relational databases have the ability to store and manage petabytes of data. Implicit is
the ability to load, monitor, back up, and optimize the use of the large data tables in the RDBMS.

DARPA�s Topological Data Analysis program seeks the fundamental structure of massive data sets and in 2008 the
technology went public with the launch of a company called Ayasdi.

The practitioners of big data analytics processes are generally hostile to slower shared storage, preferring
direct-attached storage (DAS) in its various forms from solid state drive (SSD) to high capacity SATA disk
buried inside parallel processing nodes. The perception of shared storage architectures�Storage area network
(SAN) and Network-attached storage (NAS) �is that they are relatively slow, complex, and expensive. These
qualities are not consistent with big data analytics systems that thrive on system performance, commodity
infrastructure, and low cost.

Real or near-real time information delivery is one of the defining characteristics of big data analytics.
Latency is therefore avoided whenever and wherever possible. Data in memory is good�data on spinning disk at
the other end of a FC SAN connection is not. The cost of a SAN at the scale needed for analytics applications
is very much higher than other storage techniques.

There are advantages as well as disadvantages to shared storage in big data analytics, but big data analytics
practitioners as of 2011 did not favour it.

Applications

Bus wrapped with SAP Big data parked outside IDF13.
Big data has increased the demand of information management specialists in that Software AG, Oracle
Corporation, IBM, Microsoft, SAP, EMC, HP and Dell have spent more than $15 billion on software firms
specializing in data management and analytics. In 2010, this industry was worth more than $100 billion and was
growing at almost 10 percent a year: about twice as fast as the software business as a whole.

Developed economies make increasing use of data-intensive technologies. There are 4.6 billion mobile-phone
subscriptions worldwide and between 1 billion and 2 billion people accessing the internet. Between 1990 and
2005, more than 1 billion people worldwide entered the middle class which means more and more people who gain
money will become more literate which in turn leads to information growth. The world's effective capacity to
exchange information through telecommunication networks was 281 petabytes in 1986, 471 petabytes in 1993, 2.2
exabytes in 2000, 65 exabytes in 2007 and it is predicted that the amount of traffic flowing over the internet
will reach 667 exabytes annually by 2014. It is estimated that one third of the globally stored information is
in the form of alphanumeric text and still image data, which is the format most useful for most big data
applications. This also shows the potential of yet unused data (i.e. in the form of video and audio content).

While many vendors offer off-the-shelf solutions for Big Data, experts recommend the development of in-house
solutions custom-tailored to solve the companies problem at hand if the company has sufficient technical
capabilities.

Government
The use and adoption of Big Data, within governmental processes, is beneficial and allows efficiencies in
terms of cost, productivity and innovation. That said, this process does not come without its flaws. Data
analysis often requires multiple parts of government (central and local) to work in collaboration and create
new and innovative processes to deliver the desired outcome. Below are the thought leading examples within the
Governmental Big Data space.

United States of America
In 2012, the Obama administration announced the Big Data Research and Development Initiative, to explore how
big data could be used to address important problems faced by the government. The initiative is composed of 84
different big data programs spread across six departments.Big data analysis played a large role in Barack
Obama's successful 2012 re-election campaign. The United States Federal Government owns six of the ten most
powerful supercomputers in the world. The Utah Data Center is a data center currently being constructed by the
United States National Security Agency. When finished, the facility will be able to handle a large amount of
information collected by the NSA over the Internet. The exact amount of storage space is unknown, but more
recent sources claim it will be on the order of a few exabytes.

India
Big data analysis was, in parts, responsible for the BJP and its allies to win a highly successful Indian
General Election 2014.
The Indian Government utilises numerous techniques to ascertain how the Indian electorate is responding to
government action, as well as ideas for policy augmentation

United Kingdom
Examples of good uses of big data in public services:

Data on prescription drugs: By connecting origin, location and the time of each prescription, a research unit
were able to exemplify the considerable delay between the release of any given drug, and a UK wide adaptation
of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidelines. This suggests that new/most up to date
drugs take some time to filter through to the general patient.
Joining up data: The weather challenges in Winter 2014 a local authority blended data about services, such as
road gritting rotas, with services for people at risk, such as 'meals on wheels'. The connection of data
allowed the local authority to avoid any weather related delay.

International development
Research on the effective usage of information and communication technologies for development (also known as
ICT4D) suggests that big data technology can make important contributions but also present unique challenges
to International development. Advancements in big data analysis offer cost-effective opportunities to improve
decision-making in critical development areas such as health care, employment, economic productivity, crime,
security, and natural disaster and resource management. However, longstanding challenges for developing
regions such as inadequate technological infrastructure and economic and human resource scarcity exacerbate
existing concerns with big data such as privacy, imperfect methodology, and interoperability issues.

Manufacturing
Based on TCS 2013 Global Trend Study, improvements in supply planning and product quality provide the greatest
benefit of big data for manufacturing. Big data provides an infrastructure for transparency in manufacturing
industry, which is the ability to unravel uncertainties such as inconsistent component performance and
availability. Predictive manufacturing as an applicable approach toward near-zero downtime and transparency
requires vast amount of data and advanced prediction tools for a systematic process of data into useful
information. A conceptual framework of predictive manufacturing begins with data acquisition where different
type of sensory data is available to acquire such as acoustics, vibration, pressure, current, voltage and
controller data. Vast amount of sensory data in addition to historical data construct the big data in
manufacturing. The generated big data acts as the input into predictive tools and preventive strategies such
as Prognostics and Health Management (PHM).

Cyber-Physical Models
Current PHM implementations mostly utilize data during the actual usage while analytical algorithms can
perform more accurately when more information throughout the machine�s lifecycle, such as system
configuration, physical knowledge and working principles, are included. There is a need to systematically
integrate, manage and analyze machinery or process data during different stages of machine life cycle to
handle data/information more efficiently and further achieve better transparency of machine health condition
for manufacturing industry.

With such motivation a cyber-physical (coupled) model scheme has been developed. Please see
http://www.imscenter.net/cyber-physical-platform The coupled model is a digital twin of the real machine that
operates in the cloud platform and simulates the health condition with an integrated knowledge from both data
driven analytical algorithms as well as other available physical knowledge. It can also be described as a 5S
systematic approach consisting of Sensing, Storage, Synchronization, Synthesis and Service. The coupled model
first constructs a digital image from the early design stage. System information and physical knowledge are
logged during product design, based on which a simulation model is built as a reference for future analysis.
Initial parameters may be statistically generalized and they can be tuned using data from testing or the
manufacturing process using parameter estimation. Afterwhich, the simulation model can be considered as a
mirrored image of the real machine, which is able to continuously record and track machine condition during
the later utilization stage. Finally, with ubiquitous connectivity offered by cloud computing technology, the
coupled model also provides better accessibility of machine condition for factory managers in cases where
physical access to actual equipment or machine data is limited.

Media
Internet of Things (IoT)
In order to hone into the manner in which the media utilises Big Data, it is first necessary to provide some
context into the mechanism used for media process. It has been suggested by Nick Couldry and Joseph Turow that
Practitioners in Advertising and Media approach Big Data as many actionable points of information about
millions of individuals. The industry appears to be moving away from the traditional approach of using
specific media environments such as newspapers, magazines, or television shows and instead tap into consumers
with technologies that reach targeted people at optimal times in optimal locations. The ultimate aim is of
course to serve, or convey, a message or content that is (statistically speaking) in line with the consumers
mindset. For example, publishing environments are increasingly tailoring messages (advertisements) and content
(articles) to appeal to consumers that have been exclusively gleaned through various data-mining activities.

The media industries process Big Data in a dual, interconnected manner:

Targeting of consumers (for advertising by marketers)
Data-capture
Big Data and the IoT work in conjunction. From a media perspective, Data is the key derivative of device inter
connectivity, whilst being pivotal in allowing clearer accuracy in targeting. The Internet of Things, with the
help of big data, therefore transforms the media industry, companies and even governments, opening up a new
era of economic growth and competitiveness. The intersection of people, data and intelligent algorithms have
far-reaching impacts on media efficiency. The wealth of data generated by this industry (i.e. Big Data) allows
Practitioners in Advertising and Media to gain an elaborate layer on the present targeting mechanisms utilised
by the industry.

Technology
eBay.com uses two data warehouses at 7.5 petabytes and 40PB as well as a 40PB Hadoop cluster for search,
consumer recommendations, and merchandising. Amazon.com handles millions of back-end operations every day, as
well as queries from more than half a million third-party sellers. The core technology that keeps Amazon
running is Linux-based and as of 2005 they had the world�s three largest Linux databases, with capacities of
7.8 TB, 18.5 TB, and 24.7 TB. Facebook handles 50 billion photos from its user base.

Private sector
Retail
Walmart handles more than 1 million customer transactions every hour, which are imported into databases
estimated to contain more than 2.5 petabytes (2560 terabytes) of data � the equivalent of 167 times the
information contained in all the books in the US Library of Congress.

Retail Banking
FICO Card Detection System protects accounts world-wide.
The volume of business data worldwide, across all companies, doubles every 1.2 years, according to estimates.

Real Estate
Windermere Real Estate uses anonymous GPS signals from nearly 100 million drivers to help new home buyers
determine their typical drive times to and from work throughout various times of the day.

Science
The Large Hadron Collider experiments represent about 150 million sensors delivering data 40 million times per
second. There are nearly 600 million collisions per second. After filtering and refraining from recording more
than 99.999% of these streams, there are 100 collisions of interest per second.

As a result, only working with less than 0.001% of the sensor stream data, the data flow from all four LHC
experiments represents 25 petabytes annual rate before replication (as of 2012). This becomes nearly 200
petabytes after replication.
If all sensor data were to be recorded in LHC, the data flow would be extremely hard to work with. The data
flow would exceed 150 million petabytes annual rate, or nearly 500 exabytes per day, before replication. To
put the number in perspective, this is equivalent to 500 quintillion (5�1020) bytes per day, almost 200 times
more than all the other sources combined in the world.
The Square Kilometre Array is a telescope which consists of millions of antennas and is expected to be
operational by 2024. Collectively, these antennas are expected to gather 14 exabytes and store one petabyte
per day. It is considered to be one of the most ambitious scientific projects ever undertaken.

Science and Research
When the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) began collecting astronomical data in 2000, it amassed more in its
first few weeks than all data collected in the history of astronomy. Continuing at a rate of about 200 GB per
night, SDSS has amassed more than 140 terabytes of information. When the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope,
successor to SDSS, comes online in 2016 it is anticipated to acquire that amount of data every five days.
Decoding the human genome originally took 10 years to process, now it can be achieved in less than a day: the
DNA sequencers have divided the sequencing cost by 10,000 in the last ten years, which is 100 times cheaper
than the reduction in cost predicted by Moore's Law.

The NASA Center for Climate Simulation (NCCS) stores 32 petabytes of climate observations and simulations on
the Discover supercomputing cluster.

Research activities
Encrypted search and cluster formation in big data was demonstrated in March 2014 at the American Society of
Engineering Education. Gautam Siwach engaged at Tackling the challenges of Big Data by MIT Computer Science
and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory and Dr. Amir Esmailpour at UNH Research Group investigated the key
features of big data as formation of clusters and their interconnections. They focused on the security of big
data and the actual orientation of the term towards the presence of different type of data in an encrypted
form at cloud interface by providing the raw definitions and real time examples within the technology.
Moreover, they proposed an approach for identifying the encoding technique to advance towards an expedited
search over encrypted text leading to the security enhancements in big data.

In March 2012, The White House announced a national "Big Data Initiative" that consisted of six Federal
departments and agencies committing more than $200 million to big data research projects.

The initiative included a National Science Foundation "Expeditions in Computing" grant of $10 million over 5
years to the AMPLab at the University of California, Berkeley. The AMPLab also received funds from DARPA, and
over a dozen industrial sponsors and uses big data to attack a wide range of problems from predicting traffic
congestion to fighting cancer.

The White House Big Data Initiative also included a commitment by the Department of Energy to provide $25
million in funding over 5 years to establish the Scalable Data Management, Analysis and Visualization (SDAV)
Institute, led by the Energy Department�s Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. The SDAV Institute aims to
bring together the expertise of six national laboratories and seven universities to develop new tools to help
scientists manage and visualize data on the Department�s supercomputers.

The U.S. state of Massachusetts announced the Massachusetts Big Data Initiative in May 2012, which provides
funding from the state government and private companies to a variety of research institutions. The
Massachusetts Institute of Technology hosts the Intel Science and Technology Center for Big Data in the MIT
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, combining government, corporate, and institutional
funding and research efforts.

The European Commission is funding the 2-year-long Big Data Public Private Forum through their Seventh
Framework Program to engage companies, academics and other stakeholders in discussing big data issues. The
project aims to define a strategy in terms of research and innovation to guide supporting actions from the
European Commission in the successful implementation of the big data economy. Outcomes of this project will be
used as input for Horizon 2020, their next framework program.

The British government announced in March 2014 the founding of the Alan Turing Institute, named after the
computer pioneer and code-breaker, which will focus on new ways of collecting and analysing large sets of
data.

At the University of Waterloo Stratford Campus Canadian Open Data Experience (CODE) Inspiration Day, it was
demonstrated how using data visualization techniques can increase the understanding and appeal of big data
sets in order to communicate a story to the world.

In order to make manufacturing more competitive in the United States (and globe), there is a need to integrate
more American ingenuity and innovation into manufacturing ; Therefore, National Science Foundation has granted
the Industry University cooperative research center for Intelligent Maintenance Systems (IMS) at university of
Cincinnati to focus on developing advanced predictive tools and techniques to be applicable in a big data
environment. In May 2013, IMS Center held an industry advisory board meeting focusing on big data where
presenters from various industrial companies discussed their concerns, issues and future goals in Big Data
environment.

Computational social sciences � Anyone can use Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) provided by Big Data
holders, such as Google and Twitter, to do research in the social and behavioral sciences. Often these APIs
are provided for free. Tobias Preis et al. used Google Trends data to demonstrate that Internet users from
countries with a higher per capita gross domestic product (GDP) are more likely to search for information
about the future than information about the past. The findings suggest there may be a link between online
behaviour and real-world economic indicators. The authors of the study examined Google queries logs made by
ratio of the volume of searches for the coming year (�2011�) to the volume of searches for the previous year
(�2009�), which they call the �future orientation index�. They compared the future orientation index to the
per capita GDP of each country and found a strong tendency for countries in which Google users enquire more
about the future to exhibit a higher GDP. The results hint that there may potentially be a relationship
between the economic success of a country and the information-seeking behavior of its citizens captured in big
data.

Tobias Preis and his colleagues Helen Susannah Moat and H. Eugene Stanley introduced a method to identify
online precursors for stock market moves, using trading strategies based on search volume data provided by
Google Trends. Their analysis of Google search volume for 98 terms of varying financial relevance, published
in Scientific Reports, suggests that increases in search volume for financially relevant search terms tend to
precede large losses in financial markets.

Critique
Critiques of the big data paradigm come in two flavors, those that question the implications of the approach
itself, and those that question the way it is currently done.


"A crucial problem is that we do not know much about the underlying empirical micro-processes that lead to the
emergence of the typical network characteristics of Big Data". In their critique, Snijders, Matzat, and Reips
point out that often very strong assumptions are made about mathematical properties that may not at all
reflect what is really going on at the level of micro-processes. Mark Graham has leveled broad critiques at
Chris Anderson's assertion that big data will spell the end of theory: focusing in particular on the notion
that big data will always need to be contextualized in their social, economic and political contexts. Even as
companies invest eight- and nine-figure sums to derive insight from information streaming in from suppliers
and customers, less than 40% of employees have sufficiently mature processes and skills to do so. To overcome
this insight deficit, "big data", no matter how comprehensive or well analyzed, needs to be complemented by
"big judgment", according to an article in the Harvard Business Review.

Much in the same line, it has been pointed out that the decisions based on the analysis of big data are
inevitably "informed by the world as it was in the past, or, at best, as it currently is". Fed by a large
number of data on past experiences, algorithms can predict future development if the future is similar to the
past. If the systems dynamics of the future change, the past can say little about the future. For this, it
would be necessary to have a thorough understanding of the systems dynamic, which implies theory. As a
response to this critique it has been suggested to combine big data approaches with computer simulations, such
as agent-based models and Complex Systems. Agent-based models are increasingly getting better in predicting
the outcome of social complexities of even unknown future scenarios through computer simulations that are
based on a collection of mutually interdependent algorithms. In addition, use of multivariate methods that
probe for the latent structure of the data, such as factor analysis and cluster analysis, have proven useful
as analytic approaches that go well beyond the bi-variate approaches (cross-tabs) typically employed with
smaller data sets.

In health and biology, conventional scientific approaches are based on experimentation. For these approaches,
the limiting factor are the relevant data that can confirm or refute the initial hypothesis. A new postulate
is accepted now in biosciences: the information provided by the data in huge volumes (omics) without prior
hypothesis is complementary and sometimes necessary to conventional approaches based on experimentation. In
the massive approaches it is the formulation of a relevant hypothesis to explain the data that is the limiting
factor. The search logic is reversed and the limits of induction ("Glory of Science and Philosophy scandal",
C. D. Broad, 1926) to be considered.

Privacy advocates are concerned about the threat to privacy represented by increasing storage and integration
of personally identifiable information; expert panels have released various policy recommendations to conform
practice to expectations of privacy.

Critiques of big data execution
Big data has been called a "fad" in scientific research and its use was even made fun of as an absurd practice
in a satirical example on "pig data". Researcher danah boyd has raised concerns about the use of big data in
science neglecting principles such as choosing a representative sample by being too concerned about actually
handling the huge amounts of data. This approach may lead to results bias in one way or another. Integration
across heterogeneous data resources�some that might be considered "big data" and others not�presents
formidable logistical as well as analytical challenges, but many researchers argue that such integrations are
likely to represent the most promising new frontiers in science. In the provocative article "Critical
Questions for Big Data", the authors title big data a part of mythology: "large data sets offer a higher form
of intelligence and knowledge , with the aura of truth, objectivity, and accuracy". Users of big data are
often "lost in the sheer volume of numbers", and "working with Big Data is still subjective, and what it
quantifies does not necessarily have a closer claim on objective truth". Recent developments in BI domain,
such as pro-active reporting especially target improvements in usability of Big Data, through automated
filtering of non-useful data and correlations.

Big data analysis is often shallow compared to analysis of smaller data sets. In many big data projects, there
is no large data analysis happening, but the challenge is the extract, transform, load part of data
preprocessing.

Big data is a buzzword and a "vague term", but at the same time an "obsession" with entrepreneurs,
consultants, scientists and the media. Big data showcases such as Google Flu Trends failed to deliver good
predictions in recent years, overstating the flu outbreaks by a factor of two. Similarly, Academy awards and
election predictions solely based on Twitter were more often off than on target. Big data often poses the same
challenges as small data; and adding more data does not solve problems of bias, but may emphasize other
problems. In particular data sources such as Twitter are not representative of the overall population, and
results drawn from such sources may then lead to wrong conclusions. Google Translate - which is based on big
data statistical analysis of text - does a remarkably good job at translating web pages, but for specialized
domains the results may be badly off. On the other hand, big data may also introduce new problems, such as the
multiple comparisons problem: simultaneously testing a large set of hypotheses is likely to produce many false
results that mistakenly appear to be significant. Ioannidis argued that "most published research findings are
false" due to essentially the same effect: when many scientific teams and researchers each perform many
experiments (i.e. process a big amount of scientific data; although not with big data technology), the
likelihood of a "significant" result being actually false grows fast - even more so, when only positive
results are published.
